Internet of Things is a rapidly expanding environment. IoT devices interact with each other in restricted networks, or send data for aggregation and further processing to central hubs. Billions of such devices worldwide, are potential targets for malicious attacks. Connectivity is mainly accomplished through wireless communications and encryption is the method that guarantees security, through the incorporation of crypto-cores inside the devices. However, crypto-core implementations must take into account the constrained resources that IoT devices can offer.
In this work, a hardware crypto-core, incorporating the lightweight Simeck32/64 block cipher is implemented in Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) technology, with the use of VHDL language. The basic architecture is implemented and the achieved results are evaluated. The proposed newly developed architecture, aims in the reduction of the execution time (reduction of latency), which ultimately leads to throughput increase, through the parallelism of execution steps, with as limited as possible area overhead. Both of these factors affect the power consumption of the circuit, which is crucial for IoT devices. Furthermore, another newly developed architecture is proposed, which aims in the smallest possible hardware occupation.
All of these approaches are also modified as to exploit the special functional blocks found in Xilinx FPGAs (BRAM and DSP blocks), beyond the use of general logic elements. Additionally, the effects of applying the DSP multi-pumping methodology on the aforementioned implementations are also examined. Furthermore, based on the multi-pumping principle, the basic combinational unit of the Simeck cipher is redesigned, as to reuse the XOR gates. Finally, part of an IEEE 802.15.4 digital baseband transceiver is implemented, with the incorporation of the Simeck32/64 crypto-core, in order to evaluate its functionality.
